Only 8% of the world’s currency is physical money, the rest only exists on computers.
 40-55% of all Wikipedia vandalism is caught by a single computer program with 90% accuracy.
  Alan Turing the father of computer science, artificial intelligence and who helped break German WW2 cyphers, committed suicide after being forced to undergo hormonal treatment for homosexuality and barred from continuing his cryptographic work.
   In September 1956 IBM launched the 305 RAMAC, the first ‘SUPER’ computer with a hard disk drive (HDD). The HDD weighed over a ton and stored 5 MB of data.
   A computer as powerful as the human brain would be able to perform about 38 thousand trillion operations per second and hold about 3,584 terabytes of memory.
   MIT has developed a computer software that can identify and distinguish a real smile from a smile of frustration.
    CAPTCHA is an acronym for “Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart”
    There is a Scandinavian company that is working on a way to translate what a dog is thinking using EEG-sensors and microcomputers. They already have a prototype available. 
    The first actual computer “bug” was a dead moth which was stuck in a Harvard Mark II computer in 1947.
     The word engineer comes from a Latin word meaning ‘cleverness’
      One Google search produces about 0.2 g of CO2. But since you hardly get an answer from one search, a typical search session produces about the same amount of CO2 as does boiling a tea kettle. Google handles about 1 billion search queries per day, releasing some 200 tons of CO2 per day.
       A computer virus is a computer program that can replicate itself and spread from one computer to another.
      The very first computer virus was the Creeper Virus that was detected on ARPANET, the forerunner of the Internet, in the early 1970s. It was an experimental self-replicating program written by Bob Thomas at BBN Technologies in 1971.
      Currently, there are three basic categories of malicious software threats: viruses, worms, and Trojan horses. While the behavior of them differs, they are all built from the same basic instructions and computer logic.
      Melissa virus (March 1999) was so powerful that it forced Microsoft and many other large companies to turn off their e-mail systems until the virus could be removed completely.
      Before computer networks became widespread, most viruses spread on removable media, particularly floppy disks. In the early days of the personal computer, most users regularly exchanged information and programs on floppies.
      According to the Microsoft Security Intelligence Report and Consumer Reports, 40% of US household are affected by computer viruses.
      Amazon.com was the most exploited target for phishing attacks, followed by Apple and eBay.
      Internationally, US is at the highest risk of being attacked by computer viruses, followed by Russia.
      Yet, computer virus writing is not considered an illegal act in US. Some other countries are beginning to draft computer crime laws that are far stricter than those in US. In Germany, for instance, mass exchange of computer viruses for any reason is restricted and Finland has recently made writing a computer virus an illegal act.
      These days, over 6,000 new computer viruses are created and released every month.
The most expensive computer virus of all time was referred to as MyDoom which caused $38 billion in damages. It was fast moving, infecting open networks and every computer with access to it. In 2004, this virus was estimated to impact 25% of all emails.
It is actually very easy to become a member of Anonymous, the most famous international network of hacking activists. Therefore, only a handful of them are elite hackers capable of exploiting security flaws in computer systems and writing viruses.
You cannot get a computer virus by just reading an email. It is only activated when you click a link or open an infected attachment.
By 1990, there were roughly 50 known computer viruses. During the late 1990s, the number of viruses skyrocketed to more than 48,000.
About 32% of all computers in the world (that is almost one in every three computers) are infected with some kind of malware.
In order to find their vulnerabilities, Facebook pays $500 to anyone who can hack into their system.
Despite maximum effort of computer security researchers and developers, there is currently no existing antivirus software that would be able to uncover all computer viruses.
The name of the Trojan horse virus was derived from the Ancient Greek story of the wooden horse that was used to help Greek troops invade the city of Troy by stealth.
Created by Filipino programmers Reonel Ramones and Onel de Guzman in 2000, the computer worm known as ILOVEYOU or the Love Letter was one of the most virulent computer viruses ever. The virus was estimated to infect up to 10% of the world’s Internet-connected computers back then.
The first Windows virus was WinVer 1.4, first .exe file was Groove and first boot virus was created by Faroq Alvi brothers.
Melissa virus (March 1999) was so powerful that it forced Microsoft and many other large companies to turn off their e-mail systems until the virus could be removed completely.
Tequila in 1991 was the first polymorphic virus. Polymorphic viruses make life difficult for virus scanners as they change their appearance with each new infection.
====>“Commwarrior-A” was the first known cell phone virus and it appear in March 2005.
Facebook has over a billion users. If it was a country it would be the third largest in the world.
HP, Google, Microsoft and Apple all started out of garages. Wow, and look how far they’ve come.
When you’re all grown up and working and you use a computer each day, your hands would have travelled 12.6 miles (about 20km) per day.
Gigabyte – this is a unit of computer information.
The first disk drive to use removable media was the IBM 1311. You may not believe, but it resembles the look of a washing machine. It was quite big, yet it had a storage capacity of fewer than 5 megabytes.
With the standard QWERTY keyboard, the longest word one can write is “Typewriter”.
Douglas Engelbart introduced the first computer mouse to the world. It is now one of the most necessary computer peripheral. 
A normal human being blinks around 20 times a minute. But, when compared to a computer user, they blink just 7 times a minute on an average. Simply, we tend to concentrate more on the screen, so we usually blink a lot less in front of a computer than we do normally.
Alan Turing is the father of theoretical computer science and artificial intelligence. In addition, the “Turing Machine” which is a mathematical model of computation was invented by him.
Did you know that with the help of USB flash drive you can brick a computer in seconds? All you need is the “USB Killer 2.0”. 
he first 1 GB hard drive was announced by IBM in 1980 which had a price tag of $40,000!
The 12 engineers who made IBM PC were named as “The Dirty Dozen”.
In 1936, the Russians made a computer that ran on water.
9 out of 10 of the world’s supercomputers run on Linux. So, now, don’t you think, Linux is appealing enough to be tried out at least once by every consumer present.
Google, Facebook, Twitter, and Amazon are all powered by Linux. Yes, Linux is not among the most popular OS for the general consumers. But, Linux leads the Industry.
The first web browser was invented in 1990 by Sir Tim Berners-Lee. It was called as the “WorldWideWeb” (not to be confused with WWW). Later, it was renamed as the “Nexus”.
The first website that went online was “info.cern.ch”, which was also created by Tim Berners-Lee at the research lab CERN 1990.
To make users familiar with the graphical user interface (newly introduced then), Microsoft packed in the Solitaire game along with the operating system to let the users learn about controlling the movements and operations that can be done a mouse while utilizing the cursor to drag and drop the cards.
The first word to be transmitted over the Internet (when ARPANET existed) was “lo”. It was meant to denote – “login” but the system crashed before transmitting the complete message.
The term “GPU” became more popular when NVIDIA released GeForce 256 in the year 1999.
The world’s first commercial water-cooled PC was Apple’s Power Mac G5, that’s really one of the amazing computer facts
When Apple’s power adapter (of a MacBook) had a teardown. It was found that the microcontroller used inside it was as powerful as the one used in the Macintosh computer (the first generation).
UNIVAC I was the first commercial computer to be sold in the United States. The company (Eckert–Mauchly Computer Corporation) behind it was built by the same people who invented ENIAC.
Whirlwind I was among the first vacuum-tube computer which operated in real-time and was meant to be used as a flight simulator for US Army.Programma 101 or P101 was the first commercial “desktop computer” invented by Pier Giorgio Perotto.
The first computer (which was in essence – a mechanical computer) had no RAM.
Intel 4004 was the first commercially available microprocessor with a maximum clock rate of 740 kHz.
Xerox PARC was the first computer to demonstrate the GUI (Graphical User Interface)
In the year 1969, 1 KB RAM was the largest memory chip by Intel.
Scroll Lock key is the least utilized key on a keyboard. Many believe that it’s completely useless.
Domain names are being registered at a rate of more than one million names every month.
There are approximately 1.06 billion instant messaging accounts worldwide.
The average 21 year old has spent 5,000 hours playing video games, has exchanged 250,000 e-mails, instant and text messages and has spent 10,000 hours on the mobile phone
 80% of all pictures on the internet are of naked women
 Google uses an estimated 15 billion kWh of electricity per year, more than most countries. However, google generates a lot of their own power with their solar panels
 Bill Gates, the founder of Microsoft was a college drop out.
 Bill Gates house was designed Using a Macintosh computer.
 Sweden has the hightest percentage of internet users, they are 75%
  Up until the 14th of September, 1995, domain registration was free.
  Google estimates that the Internet today contains about 5 million terabytes of data (1TB = 1,000GB), and claims it has only indexed a paltry 0.04% of it all! You could fit the whole Internet on just 200 million Blu-Ray disks.
  There are about five porn pages for every ‘normal’ web-page.
  he prime reason the Google home page is so bare, is due to the fact that the founders didn’t know HTML and just wanted a quick interface. Infact, the submit button was a later addition initially, hitting the RETURN key was the only way to burst Google into life.
 Over 400 hours of content is uploaded every single minute on YouTube, which comes out to 24,000 days’ worth of content every minute, equating to 65.7 years’ worth of content every day.
   Mosaic was the first popular web browser which was released in 1993.
   Of the 247 BILLION email messages sent every day, 81% are pure spam.
   the first White House website was launched during the Clinton-Gore administration on October 21, 1994. Coincidentally, the site www.whitehouse.com linked to a pornography web site.
Google uses enough energy to continuously power 200,000 homes, even though 1.9 MW of solar panels produce over 3 million kWh of clean energy every year at its Mountain View campus
At the end of 2015, 8.1 billion devices – smart phones, tablets, personal computers, TVs, TV-attached devices and audio devices – connected to the Internet.  That comes to around four devices per household.
NASA has successfully beamed Wi-Fi Internet to the Moon.
 Scott Fahlman invented the first emoticon – 🙂 – in 1982.
 Russians made a computer that ran on water. Built in 1936, it was the world’s first computer for solving partial differential equations.
  Economists estimate that only 8% of the world’s currency exists as physical cash. The rest exists only on computers.
   The secret computer unlock code of the United States’ long-range nuclear-tipped missiles was 00000000 – for 20 years.
   By 2018, computers will be able to see, hear, taste, touch and smell.
    Data can be corrupted by high-energy particles that strike Earth from outer space and, occasionally switch bits in the chips in your computer.
 The original URL of Yahoo was http://akebono.stanford.edu previously which was later changed to www.yahoo.com.
 Only 4% of Arab women actually make use of an internet.
 Almost half of the total world population has never practically made a phone call.
 The background scheme of Facebook is blue colored due to the reason that its founder Mark Zuckerberg has a type of color blindness which shows only the blue part and not the red and green.
The first electronic computer ENIAC weighed more than 27 tons and took up 1800 square feet.
 Bit: a single binary piece of data, either a 0 or a 1.
 Byte: eight bits strung together to represent a specific value such as a letter or a digit.
 Dword: a double word, or 32 bits.
 Nibble: a half byte, or 4 bits.
Word: 16 bits of data used to represent a discrete piece of data.
Hashtag: the # character (called an octothorpe) combined with a word or phrase that concisely defined a conversation, post, tweet, or image into a category, intended to make it easier for people to find by searching on the term associated with the hashtag. Brought into larger awareness by Jimmy Fallon and Justin Timberlake.
poke: another term with common origins in Facebook, poking someone is a way to remind them that they are involved in the community, but have not interacted in an extended period of time. It sounds like a lewd act to anyone not familiar with it.
. Blob: A blob is a Binary Large Object, and indicates some large amount of data other than just simple text, usually stored within a database.
Bug: Whether first used by Thomas Edison, or referring to a moth trapped in an early computer that blocked a relay from properly functioning, today “bug” refers to any glitch or defect in software, hardware, or even the odd human.
Crapplet: An applet, usually Java based, that is not worth anything.
GUI: A gooey is a Graphical User Interface, and not something that requires hand-sanitizer, but try talking about your GUI around non-techies and see what facial expressions result.
Warez: All 1337 speakerz replace the letter S with Z, use pidgin grammar, and shorten wordz, so “warez” is short for “softwares” and refers to ill-gotten gains, either pirated, cracked or being used with a key code to circumvent licensing requirements.
Worm: A software worm crawls across systems, either seeking specific data or exploiting vulnerabilities which can in turn be used to exploit other systems. Unlike a virus that must be executed by a system, a worm seeks to exploit the system through externally accessible vulnerabilities and does not require user interaction.
404: The HTTP response code for “File Not Found”, 404 is being used to simply convey things like “not found,” “not here,” or even “I don’t know.”
 Cookies: Small files used to store state from one visit to a next, cookies are also being used to track users and deliver advertising. Anything that indicates where you have been or what you have done may now be referred to as a cookie, including phone logs and footprints.
 Wiki: A backronym was coined to say Wiki stands for “What I Know Is” but it is actually Hawaiian for “quick.”
 Boss Key: Any key built into a game that quickly pauses the game and brings up a spreadsheet or other screen that looks like work so your boss doesn’t realize you were goofing off.
 CKI: Refers to an error in the Chair Keyboard Interface. Think about what connects the chair to the keyboard.
 AMA: Ask Me Anything, from the popular Reddit forum’s interviews with celebrities and others of note.
 AFK: Away From Keyboard, to signify when you need to step away so people chatting with you don’t think you are now ignoring them.
  Interwebs: Slang for the Internet, as a way to poke fun at non-technical people who confuse the Internet with the World Wide Web.
   Kludge: A poorly programmed piece of software, a piece of hardware cobbled together from spare parts, or a project plan created by someone with no real experience with the task at hand.
   KOS: From gaming, it stands for Kill On Site and can also be used to indicate data to be deleted or hardware to be retired.
    N00b: Spelled with zeroes, it indicates a relative newcomer or someone lacking experience.
     Podcast: Not just for iPods anymore, a podcast is any recorded media that can be consumed later and can cover virtually any topic. Podcasts are usually under an hour or so, usually audio only, and consist of a lecture, dialog, or interview on a particular topic. Many podcasters create regular programs with a unifying theme.
     Sneakernet-The old-fashioned way of transferring data using external, portable media by copying the data to disk and then walking it over somewhere.

ADSL
Asymmetric digital subscriber line (ADSL) is a type of digital subscriber line (DSL) broadband technology that is used to connect to the Internet. It uses standard telephone lines to deliver high-speed data communications (up to 24 megabytes per second).
Analogue
Analogue is a conventional method of transmitting data. Standard landline telephones use analogue technology. It is distinct from digital technology, which provides for greater quality and speed of data transmission.
Back-end
Back-end refers to the part of an application that performs an essential task not apparent to the user.
Bandwidth
Bandwidth refers to the maximum amount of data that can travel a communications path in a given time, usually measured in seconds.
Bit
A bit (short for binary digit) is the smallest unit of measurement in computing. 8 bits make up 1 byte.
Bookmark
A bookmark is a saved link to a particular Web page. Microsoft Internet Explorer denotes bookmarks as "favourites."

Boolean operators
Most search engines (e.g. Google) allow you to limit your search or make it more specific by using words such as "and", "or" and "not". These words are known as boolean operators because of their origin as terms in logic.

Boot (re-boot) 
To boot (or re-boot) is to load and initialise the operating system on a computer. Think of it as starting up your computer. In Windows you can use the key combination CTRL and ALT and DEL as a "soft" boot. This means restarting the computer rather than turning it completely off and on again, which could cause damage to your computer's hard disk under some circumstances.
Cache
When you download (read) a web page, the data is "cached," meaning it is temporarily stored on your computer. The next time you want that page, instead of requesting the file from the web server, your web browser just accesses it from the cache, so the page loads quickly. 
CAD
Computer-aided design (CAD) is a type of software that allows users to create 2D and 3D design and modelling. CAD is used by architects, engineers, artists and other professionals to create precise technical drawings.

Chip
A chip is a microprocessor that performs many functions and calculations that make your computer run. Your computer's chip is also referred to as the CPU (Central Processing Unit) or the processor.

Cloud computing
Cloud computing refers to the storing and accessing of data and programs over the Internet instead of on another type of hard drive. Examples of Cloud services include iCloud, Google Cloud and Dropbox.
Cookie
A piece of code or data created by a web server and stored on a user's computer. It is used to keep track of the user's usage patterns and preferences.

CPU
The central processing unit (CPU) is the brains behind your computer. The CPU is responsible for performing calculations and tasks that make programs work. The higher the speed of a CPU, the faster the CPU undertakes the calculations and tasks.

Cybercrime
Cybercrime is any type of illegal activity that is undertaken (or relies heavily) on a computer. There are thousands of types of cybercrime, including network intrusions, identity theft and the spreading of computer viruses.

Cybersecurity
Cybersecurity refers to measures designed to protect your computer, device or network from cybercrime. This involves preventing unintended and unauthorised access, change and damage.

Device driver
A device driver is a small program that allows a peripheral device such as a printer or scanner to connect to your PC.

Domain
A domain is a set of computers on a network that are managed as a unit.
Encryption
Encryption is the process of converting electronic data to an unrecognisable or encrypted form, one that cannot be easily understood by unauthorised parties.

Ethernet
Ethernet is the most common way of connecting computers on a network with a wired connection. It is a type of local area network (LAN) technology, providing a simple interface for connecting multiple devices.

Firewall
A firewall is a barrier that acts as a security system to protect trusted computer systems and networks from outside connections and untrusted networks, such as the Internet.

FTP
File transfer protocol (FTP) is a common method of transferring files via the internet from one host to another host.

Gateway
A point within a network that interconnects with other networks.

GIF
Graphics interchange format (GIF) is a graphics file format. Because GIF files are compressed, they can be quickly and easily transmitted over a network. GIF is one of the main graphics formats on the Internet.
ISP
An internet service provider (ISP) is a company that provides access to the Internet. In Australia, widely used ISPs include Bigpond, iinet and Dodo.

Intranet
An intranet is basically a private, internal internet specific to an organisation or group.
JPEG
JPEG stands for Joint Photographic Experts Group, which was the committee that created the file format known as JPEG. The format is commonlyl used for photos displayed on the world wide web.

LAN
A local area network (LAN) is a system that connects computers and other devices that share a common communications line and wireless link, generally within a limited geographical area such as a home or office building.

Malware
"Malware" is short for malicious software. It refers to a software program that has been developed to do harm to other computers. Types of malware include viruses, worms and spyware.

Megabyte
A measure of computer processor storage and real and virtual memory. A megabyte (Mb) is 2 to the 20th power bytes, or 1,048,576 bytes in decimal notation.

Megahertz
Megahertz is the unit used to measure the speed of a computer's processor (e.g. 2.8Ghz)

Modem
A modem is a device that allows computers to transmit information to each other via ordinary telephone lines.
Phishing
Phishing is a type of email fraud in which the perpetrator sends out emails that appear to come from a legitimate service or reputable company, such as a bank or an email service provider. These emails aim to lure recipients to reveal confidential information that the perpetrator can use for their financial advantage - for example, online banking log-in details and passwords.

Plug-in
A software plug-in is a component that adds to a software program's functionality.

POP
A Post office protocol (POP) is an Internet protocol used by your Internet service provider (ISP) to handle email. A POP account is an email account.

PPM
Pages per minute (PPM) generally refers to the speed of a printer.
SSL
SSL, or secure sockets layer, is a protocol that allows Internet users to send encrypted messages across the Internet. It is generally used when transmitting confidential information (e.g. personal data or credit card details). A web address that begins with "https" indicates that an SSL connection is in use.

SEO
SEO, or search engine optimisation, is the practice of making adjustments to certain aspects of a website in an effort to improve its ranking on search engines.

Server
A server is a computer that handles requests for data, email, file transfers, and other network services from other computers.

Spam
Spam refers to unsolicited email messages sent for marketing purposes.
URL
A URL (unique resource locator) or web address is the string of characters you type into a browser to access a particular website or other resource on the Internet.
WEP
Wired equivalent privacy (WEP) is a security protocol used in wi-fi networks. It is designed to provide a wireless local area network (LAN) with a level of security similar to that of a regular wired LAN. WEP-secured networks are usually protected by passwords. (See also WAP.)

Wi-Fi
Wi-Fi is a technology that allows computers and other devices to communicate via a wireless signal. Essentially, it means you can browse the internet without tripping over phone cords.

WPA
Wi-Fi protected access (WPA) is a security protocol used in wi-fi networks. It is an improvement on WEP because it offers greater protection through more sophisticated data encryption.
Archive: To store older or even historical data for access at a later date. Basically it is filed away. On a web page if you access its archives it is referring to older posts, not recent.
AVI: Audio Video Interleave is a format for videos which can be played in many movie players. Always check compatibility because an avi can contain different codecs.
Batch File: A batch file is a text file which contains a list of DOS commands and is saved with a .BAT file extension. When you run a batch file the commands are carried out by the computer. It is a mini program.
Bcc: Stands for Blind Carbon Copy. When sending an email to a group of email recipients you can choose Bcc to hide everyone’s email addresses from each other. It respects other people’s privacy.
Bios: Basic input output system. You can access this when you start-up a computer. It will say on the screen “To enter setup press …..key”. It lets you change whether the CD-ROM or hard drive boots first. There are also settings to overclock some computer systems.

Bit: (binary digit) This is the smallest unit of information on a machine and can hold only one of two values: 0 or 1. Consecutive bits can be combined to form larger units such as a byte (8 bits = 1 byte).

Blocked Senders List: A Blocked Senders List is a list of contacts or email addresses blocked from contacting you or interacting with you.

Blog: Short for Web-log. It used to be a small website where you could have an online journal or diary, however now they are used for more than that. A blog can now be a huge website with loads of information. It can be a commercial enterprise or a personal project.
Broadcast: To simultaneously send the same message to multiple recipients. Broadcasting is a useful feature in e-mail systems
Buffer: A storage area in memory that stores information temporarily while in use. Also known as the cache, this area can be increased and decreased if necessary.

Bug: A minor problem that occurs in a software program. New software developers usually iron out all the bugs before releasing the software for sale. In other words they repair the software until it is bug free and runs with a hitch.
CLI: Command Line Interface is when you input text based commands to control the computer as opposed to using graphical user interface (GUI), which is graphics based commands.
Codec: Stands for Coder/Decoder. A piece of software or a device that adds support to programs so they can play certain audio and video files. It converts them into a format that your media player will understand. For example in Windows XP, Windows media player needs a dvd codec to be able to play dvd’s on your computer. Some software may include the required codecs.
Diskette: Also known as a floppy disk. A floppy disk is old technology that held a small amount of data on a magnetic tape inside the disk shell. The data was transferred by a floppy disk drive. This is old technology so most newer computers don’t have this floppy disk drive.
DPI: Dots Per Inch, used in monitor and TV descriptions, tells you how many pixels the monitor or TV displays per square inch.
DVD: Digital Video Disk, this is mainly used as the name implies, to store movies to watch in a player, similar looking to a CD (compact disk) is can hold over 5 times as much and can be used to store things other than video, such as files, note that a DVD cannot be played in a CD player, but most Cd’s can be played in most DVD player.
EULA: (End User License Agreement) A text file that usually accompanies software and is the legal agreement between the manufacturer and a purchaser. When you install a program and press accept you are agreeing to these terms.
Freeware: Copyrighted software that is available for use without charge. It is not a trialware or shareware, it is completely free.
Glitch: A hardware problem much like a software bug, that causes a computer to malfunction.
Mail bomb: A mail bomb is an onslaught of email messages that are intended to overload a recipient’s inbox.
NTFS: New Technology File System. This form of file system is no longer new, however it is still used for all operating systems from Windows 2000 onwards. The NTFS file system has almost replaced the earlier FAT file system. The FAT file system mostly only exists on usb flash drives. NTFS offers improved security, use of less disk space, and other features.
OCR: Optical character reader. A device used to scan text from a document to a computer so it can be edited, stored, or reprinted at a later date. For example you could scan a printed book into your computer and the text will be there for you to edit and change.
Organic Search: Search results in a search engine that that come up naturally and are not paid advertisements.The paid adverts are usually at the top and to the right of the organic results.
OSK: On screen keyboard. Windows has a built in OSK. You can type OSK in the run command window and it will appear.
PCI: (peripheral component interconnect) These are slots on the motherboard, usually white, where you can add cards onto your computer. You can add soundcards, internal modems, TV cards, and more…
Patch: A small add-on to a program that improves on the original piece of software. For example a patch for a program may be needed to repair an error that occurs when using the program.
PDF: Portable Document Format. A document format designed by Adobe that was intended to make documents compatible on all types of computers. You can download Adobe Acrobat software for free.
Ping: Ping is a network utility used to find out if a computer connected on a network. Pinging can be done over the internet or a network to see if a connection is alive. You can ping a website by using its domain name or you can ping a computer on your network by using its IP address. If the ping is successful then the computer exists on the network.

Piracy: Illegally producing a copy of anything that is copyrighted. It could be an illegal copy of a software program, music files, or even full movies.

Pixel: A graphic unit and is usually made up of dots of color. 
RSS: RSS or Really Simple Syndication is a group of Web feed formats used to publish frequently updated works like news headlines or blog entries.
TCP/IP: Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol. A set of networking rules that is used for internet connections. TCP/IP allows us to connect to remote computers over the internet and exchange data and information.
TCP/IP: Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol. A set of networking rules that is used for internet connections. TCP/IP allows us to connect to remote computers over the internet and exchange data and information.
UNIX: An operating system developed by AT&T that features excellent networking capabilities. It is not a popular operating system for the home user.

URL: Universal Resource Locator is the global address of a web page or document. Domain names are used in URL’s. This URL is http://www.tips4pc.com.

USB: Universal Serial Bus. A fast data transfer, serial interface, that allows multiple devices to be connected to your computer at the same time. USB also supports plug and play so it is easy to connect to your computer. Most digital cameras connect to the computer through USB.
Virtual memory: A section of the hard drive that is allocated to be used as virtual memory. This virtual memory will be used as if it were RAM (random access memory). Therefore when an application needs more ram to run smoothly there will appear to be more than there actually physically is. See how to change your virtual memory amount.
Wizard: A small program that helps you achieve a task on the computer without having to obtain the detailed skills to do so.. You can have a wizard to setup a network, install hardware, create a website, and more..
Workstation: A desktop computer than runs applications and serves as an access point in a local area network.
LAN: (local area network) A group of computers that share a common connection and are usually in a small area. For example an office or home network.

MAN: (metropolitan area network) This is a larger network that connects computer users in a particular geographic area or region. For example a large university may have a network so large that it may be classified as a MAN.
It is far larger than a LAN and smaller than a WAN. Also large cities like London and Sydney, Australia have metropolitan area networks.

WAN: (wide area network) This is the largest network and can interconnect networks throughout the world.

appple terminology
The Apple A4 processor is a type processor known as a system-on-a-chip, where a CPU and a GPU are combined onto a single processing chip.Apple used the A4 in the original iPad, in the iPhone 4, and in the 4th generation of the iPod Touch.
Short for Advanced Audio Coding, AAC is a codec that has better quality and compression than the popular MP3 format. AAC is the default codec Apple iTunes uses when saving audio CDs to your computer.
Short for Datagram Delivery Protocol, DDP is an AppleTalk protocol that helps ensure that packets are sent in the proper order and that they are received.
A dirty ROM is a ROM used with earlier editions of the Apple Macintosh computer. Dirty ROM refers to the portion of ROM used by the programmers and engineers.
Sometimes referred to as a Hackintosh, a Frankenmac is a home-built version of an Apple Macintosh computer, created to give users Apple functionality at a lower price. 
iBeacon is an indoor proximity system trademarked by Apple. It is a technology that enables an iOS device or other hardware to send push notifications to other iOS devices in close proximity.
iCloud is a cloud service from Apple that allows photos, documents, and other media to be stored on Apple cloud servers, which allows their easy transferability between iPhones, iPads, Mac computers, and more.
iLife is a software suite developed by Apple and included with Apple Mac computers. The iLife suite includes iPhoto, iMovie, iDVD, GarageBand, and iWeb.
The Newton platform was a PDA that used a stylus as an input device. It started development by Apple in 1987 was able to convert handwritten text into typed text using handwriting recognition software.
Short for Parameter RAM, PRAM is a small, battery-powered section in Apple Macintosh computers used to store basic settings such as the time and the data.
Alternatively referred to as external commands, XCFD is SuperCard, HyperCard, and other Apple Macintosh options that allow an external command to be run from the program.
Alternatively referred to as an external function, XCFN is a SuperCard, HyperCard, or other software function or task created by an Apple user that is not part of the original program.
 AI terminology
 Alternatively referred to as a cognitive system, AI is short for Artificial Intelligence and is a term coined by John McCarthy in 1955 at Dartmouth College and first purposed by Alan Turing who also developed the Turing test. The basic purpose of AI is to develop a computer or program to simulate a human or have the capability of learning.
 alice: Open source natural language artificial intelligent robot programmed with the Artificial Intelligent Markup Language (AIML).
Short for Artificial Intelligent Markup Language, AIML is the markup language that enables A.L.I.C.E and other bots that are based on A.L.I.C.E to communicate with humans.

Derived from the name of the mathematician Muhammed ibn-Musa Al-Khowarizmi, an algorithm is a solution to a problem that meets the following criteria.
A list of instructions, procedures, or formula that solves a problem.
Can be proven.
Something that always finishes and works.

Big data is a term that describes the process of handling and analyzing evolving data that is in the Petabyte and Exabyte range.
Term used to describe an individual who is responsible for or maintains a bot. A botmaster is responsible for keeping the bot online, making sure any errors are fixed, and that the bot doesn't break any of the rules of the channel or server it's logged into.
 Short for robots, bots are fictitious characters, programmed characters, or pieces of software designed to mimic characters or real players in a video game.A bot may be programmed to perform tasks like scraping/aggregating metadata from websites, automatically updating a web page, or interacting with a chat room.
 Dart is an open-source web-based programming language developed by Google Dart was created in the hopes that it would one day replace JavaScript as the primary programming language for web applications. It has a syntax similar to the C programming language, and supports object-oriented constructs such as classes and inheritance.
 Data mining is a concept first realized when businesses began storing important information on computer databases and extracting useful information from large sets of data.
 Data processing is the process of gathering and manipulating data, and then summarizing it as something meaningful. It may also refer to the overall general operations carried out by a computer.
 A data warehouse is a repository of integrated information, available for queries and analysis. Data and information are extracted from mixed sources as they are generated, making it easier and more efficient to run queries over data that originally came from different sources.
 Alternatively referred to as Doctor, Eliza is a form of artificial intelligence created by Dr. Joseph Weizenbaum in 1966, who was a part of the MIT Artificial Intelligence Lab. Eliza is a two hundred line program that made a user believe that he or she was talking to a real therapist.
 Alternatively referred to as a rule-based system, an expert system is a software application that performs tasks normally handled by a human being with vast knowledge in a certain area.
 The idea of fuzzy logic was first introduced by Dr. Lotfi Zadeh in the 1960s, who wanted computers to understand natural language (typical problems or questions in everyday life), where there is not always a true/false or yes/no answer.
hope bot: A helper bot developed by Computer Hope that derived from some of the work done on the Zer0 chat bot that assists and maintains order in the Computer Hope chat channel. Hopebot is written in Perl and connects to IRC channels using the Net:IRC Perl module.
An inference engine is a module or program designed to collect information from a database. It then takes that information and applies various rules or locates patterns, and then executes an action based on the results.
Short for Linear Inferences Per Second, LIPS is a measurement tool that identifies just how fast an artificial intelligence program can think.and another short for LInux Phone Standard, LIPS is a standard to help bring a Linux interface to mobile phones.
Short for LISt Processing, LISP is a high-level programming used in artificial intelligence research created by John McCarthy.
Contest developed by Hugh Loebner and The Cambridge Center for Behavioral Studies. Loebner Prize is the first implementation of the Turing Test that awards a Grand Prize of $100,000 USD and a Gold Medal for the first computer whose responses were indistinguishable from a human's. Each year an annual prize of $2,000 and bronze medal is awarded for most human computer.
A logical decision is a computer-related decision that can have one of many results. These results are often based on pre-set rules created by the programmer.
Microsoft Agent was a software technology developed by Microsoft that helped make interaction and learning with the computer through animated characters and speech synthesis in Microsoft Windows XP and Windows Vista. In April 2009, Microsoft announced that it was discontinuing Microsoft Agent and would not include it in Windows 7 or later versions of Microsoft Windows.
Sometimes abbreviated as NLP, natural Language processing is a method used in artificial intelligence to process and derive meaning from the human language.
Short for Programming in Logic or Programation et Logique, prolog is a programming language originally developed by Alain Colmeraur and his colleagues at the University of Marseilles. Prolog is commonly used for AI, and unlike other programming languages, Prolog is based on a set of rules instead of instructions.
SHRDLU is a historically significant piece of software written in 1968-70 by Terry Winograd at the MIT Artificial Intelligence Laboratory. It uses AI to interpret the natural language of a human user, who issues commands to manipulate a virtual world.
A computerized replication of a human's voice. Speech synthesis is commonly accomplished by either piecing together words that have been pre-recorded, or combining an assortment of sounds to generate a voice. Speech synthesis is commonly accomplished by entering text into the computer and having the computer read that text out loud.
In computer science, Turing completeness is a classification for a system of rules that manipulate data. It is named after computer scientist Alan Turing, inventor of the Turing machine.
A Turing machine is a machine proposed by the Alan Turing in 1936 that became the foundation for theories about computing and computers. The machine was a device that printed symbols on paper tape in a manner that emulated a person following a series of logical instructions.

battary terminology
Short for milliamp hour or mA x hour, mAH is a batteries total capacity. The larger the mAH value, the more charge it's capable of holding.
Short for Direct Methanol Fuel Cell, DFMC is a battery from Toshiba that utilizes concentrated methanol to power a device.
ExpressCharge is a Dell laptop battery feature that allows a battery to have greater than 80% charge after about an hour of charging and fully charge in about 2 hours with the system off. This technology allows a laptop to have a faster charge when compared with other laptops.
Alternatively referred to as an intelligent battery, a smart battery is a portable computer battery that keeps a computer up-to-date with its power status and other battery characteristics.
Short for Lithium-ion and sometimes abbreviated as Li-on, Li-ion is a fragile technology requiring a protector circuit. It is used where very high energy density is needed and cost is secondary. Li-ion batteries are more expensive, but perform without the memory issues that affect other types of batteries.
Short for Lithium Polymer, Li-polymer is a battery technology that is a lower cost version of the Li-ion that first started being used in 1996.
Trademarked name for a Nickel-Cadmium battery owned by SAFT America Inc., NiCad is a rechargeable battery made mostly of nickel and cadmium. Compared to other battery technologies, the NiCad variety offer performance at low temperatures, decent capacity, and a good life cycle.
Short for Nickel-Metal Hydride and also abbreviated as Ni-MH, NiMH is a rechargeable battery used primarily in portable computers.
PowerNow! is a feature available with AMD's K6-2+, K6-III+, mobile Athlon, Turion 64, and later AMD mobile processors that allows a user to control features of the processor through software that lower its speed. By reducing the overall speed of the processor it helps conserve power and reduce the heat produced by the processor, which saves on battery life.
Short for Smart Battery Data, SBD is a battery technology spearheaded by Intel and Duracell which incorporates an integrated circuit into a laptop battery pack. The circuit communicates important information about the battery, including charge level and temperature, to the computer's SMBus.
speedstep:A feature available with Intel Pentium III, Pentium III-Mobile, and later Intel mobile processors for controling features of the processor through software to lower its speed. By reducing the overall speed of the processor it helps conserve power and reduce the heat produced by the processor, which saves battery life.

camera terminology
Short for Automatic Exposure, AE is a camera mode that automatically adjusts the camera's exposure settings. It allows a camera to get as close as possible to the subject's mid-tone using its on-board through-the-lens, or TTL, exposure meter.
Short for Autofocus, AF is an a sensor, a control system, and a motor that focuses automatically or on a manually selected point or area. The AF speed is highly dependent on the maximum aperture offered by the lens. F-stops of around f/2 to f/2.8 are usually considered optimal in terms of accuracy and focusing speed.
Sometimes abbreviated as AA, Anti-aliasing is a term used to describe the software process of making the edges of graphic objects or fonts smoother. Accomplished by adding additional pixels in-between the edges of an object and its background.
When referring to computers and electronics, artifacts, more commonly known as digital artifacts, are errors that occur during signal transmission or interpretation.
A visual effect that makes the edges of text or images appear fuzzy or out of focus is referred to as a blur. As can be seen in the image, "Computer Hope" is written twice, the first one is a standard non-blur text, and the second is blurred.
Short for Charge Coupled Device, CCD is an image sensor used with digital cameras that converts light into an electrical charge and processed into electrical signals. 
Short for CompactFlash, CF is a 50-pin connection storage device. CompactFlash is a storage medium commonly found in PDAs, digital cameras, and other portable devices. The CF card had a pretty large range of sizes, in terms of storage capacity, ranging from 2 MB to 128 GB. The picture shows a SanDisk 4.0 GB CompactFlash card.
A CMOS sensor is an image sensor used with digital cameras that converts light into electrical signals.
The color gamut is the range of colors that can all be seen by any given system or device. Examples of devices included could be cameras, printers, scanners, or monitors.
Short for Digital Camera IMages, DCIM is a folder that contains the digital images taken with a digital camera.
Alternatively referred to as flash storage, flash memory is a non-volatile computer memory that was first invented by Fujio Masuoka in the early 1980s while at Toshiba.This type of memory is an integrated circuit that does not need continuous power to retain the data, but is a bit more expensive than magnetic storage. 
Flickr is the largest online community for viewing and sharing digital pictures. The service allows users to post and share their digital photographs and is find and sort through millions of images. On March 21, 2005, Yahoo announced that it would acquire Flickr and has since then added this service into their products.
Alternatively referred to as geocoding, geotagging is the process of attaching a physical location to a photograph's metadata.
Image stabilization, also known as IS, is a technique used to reduce the blur that occurs in a digital photographic image when the camera is moving at the moment of exposure.
Megapixels or MP is a value of one million pixels that is given to digital cameras to rate the capability and resolution of pictures the digital camera can take. In general, the higher this value is, the higher the resolution of pictures the camera will be able to take.
Alternatively referred to as red-eye effect, red-eye or redeye.Red-eye is caused when someone takes a picture with a flash camera and that flash is being reflected back to the camera.
Abbreviated as RTOS, a real-time operating system or embedded operating system is a computer operating system designed to handle events as they occur.
Short for Standard Apple Numeric Environment, SANE is an older Apple Macintosh graphic calculator and arithmetic feature. New Apple computers now utilize the PowerPC Numerics utility to perform these functions.
Short for Scanner Access Now Easy, SANE is a public domain API that allows computers to access computer scanners, cameras, etc.
Short for Universal Serial Bus, USB (pronounced yoo-es-bee) is a plug-and-play interface that allows a computer to communicate with peripheral and other devices. 

business terminology
Short for Acceptable Use Policy, AUP is an agreement made between the user and company on how a service can be used. By utilizing the service associated with the AUP, the user agrees to the Terms Of Use in the policy.
Short for business-to-business, B2B is also known as e-biz and refers to the exchange of goods and services between businesses instead of between a business and a consumer.
A Bitcoin (BTC) is a digital currency, used on the Internet for various services. This currency utilizes an open-source, peer-to-peer Internet protocol for tracking of transactions involving bitcoin transfers.The bitcoin was first introduced by Satoshi Nakamoto on January 3, 2009. However, Nakamoto is not the developer's real name and their real identity is unknown
Short for Bastard Operator From Hell, BOFH is a fictional administrator created by Simon Travaglia that becomes angry with the users he's supposed to be helping. As a result, he begins causing havoc by deleting their accounts and files, changing passwords and rights, and other mischievous tasks that cause users grief.
Short for Byte Order Mark, BOM is another name for the Unicode character at the beginning of a file that indicates whether or not a file is UTF-16 or UTF-32.
Short for Consumer Electronic Show, CES is a convention held around the world. It allows manufacturers and developers to display and talk about their latest electronic devices, gadgets, and ideas. The first CES was held in New York July 24 to 28, 1967.
The largest electronics exhibition show in Asia, CEATEC is hosted every year in October in Japan and features electronic components, devices, and related products and services.
A chilling effect is a term used to describe censorship that is caused when someone is afraid of creating or posting content because of potential legal threats. This effect is encountered when a company or individual does not post or has vague Copyright information or receives a cease and desist letter and is uncertain about rights.
Cloud computing is a term used to describe services provided over a network by a collection of remote servers. This abstract "cloud" of computers provides massive, distributed storage and processing power, which can be accessed by any Internet-connected device running a web browser.Amazon Web Services (AWS),Dashlane ,Oracle public cloud,Windows Azure etc are example.
A name given to a product while it is in development and does not officially have a name. For example, "Chicago" was the codename given to Microsoft Windows 95 while it was being developed.
Short for COMputer Dealer's EXhibition, COMDEX was a computer hardware and software tradeshow usually held in the winter and summer each year in cities across the world. It ceased operation in 2003, and its website now directs visitors to InterOp, an annual independent conference of technology leaders.
copyleft:A Copyright that preserves rights rather than removing them. Copyleft is a guiding principle of the General Public License (GPL) and the Free Software Foundation (FSF). It states that others may copy, modify, and distribute an author's work as long as the same rights are preserved on the modified work.
A Copyright is a protection for any published work that helps to prevent that work from being used without prior authorization. A Copyright may be indicated by the word "Copyright", or a C surrounded by a circle (©), followed by the date of when the work was published, and finally the author of the work.
 CPS or Characters Per Second can also refer to how fast a printer can print. Other measurements of a printer include LPM and PPM.
 Short for Customer Relationship Management, CRM entails all aspects of interaction a company has with its customer, whether it be sales or service related.
  Cyber Monday is reported to be the busiest online shopping day and the official day when many users begin to do their online holiday shopping.
  Short for DataBase Administrator, DataBase Analyst or DataBase Architect. DBA is the individual responsible for maintaining, analyzing, or updating a computer database.
  When referring to computers, a de facto standard is an accepted application, design, or language standard that is used throughout the industry, but has not been officially recognized. A good example of a de facto standard is the paper clip icon used in e-mail programs to represent an attachment.
  Short for Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the DMCA is an addition added to the U.S. Copyright law on October 28, 1998 that makes it illegal to circumvent any copy protection. For example, the DMCA prohibits bypassing the copy protection on a DVD to make copies of that DVD, even if you own the DVD.
  Short for Distributed Management Task Force, Inc., DMTF is an organization founded in 1992 that helps in the development of management standards for distributed desktop, network enterprise and Internet environments.DTMF has over 160 member companies and organizations with more than 4,000 active participants. Some of the companies include Cisco, Citrix, Dell, Fujitsu, Hewlett-Packard, Hitachi, Intel, Microsoft, Oracle, and VMware.
  Downsizing is the process of replacing mainframe or minicomputer-based computer system with a network of personal computers. This process is beneficial in that it can increase performance while reducing cost.
  Short for electronic commerce, e-commerce is any business or transactions that results in profit made over the Internet.
  Short for European Computer Manufacturers Association, ECMA was founded in 1961 and is dedicated to the standardization of Information and Communication Technology Systems.
  Founded on February 16, 1990 by John Gilmore, John Barlow, and Mitch Kapor. The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) is an world wide non-profit digital rights group based in the United States. The EFF provides the following services.
  An electronic office is an office or work environment that is utilizing electronic methods of storing and using documents over using paper.
  Electronic publishing is a publishing method where the final release of the document or media is released electronically. For example, documents or other media placed on a CD-ROM, the Internet or through e-mail.
  An end user is an individual who uses hardware or software programmed or designed by another person who does not support that product. Most computer users are considered end users in one capacity or another.
  An engineer is an individual who has a degree or is highly skilled in a particular field. For example, a hardware engineer and software or test engineer.
   Short for End-of-Line, EOL is a code or a mark the user or computer places at the end of a line of text to indicate the end of the line. With regular expressions the end of the line is matched using the dollar sign ($).
   Alternatively referred to as human factors, ergonomics is the study and design of products that reduce stress and improve comfort to the user, helping increase the users' productivity.
   Short for Enterprise Resource Planning, ERP is business management software that integrates many of its applications; more specifically, those which apply to human resources, technology, and services
   Short for Electronic Technicians Association International (ETA-I), ETA is a non-profit association that was founded in 1978 that certifies electronics equipment service and support. Some examples of the ETA-I certifications are the CST, CNCT, and CNST.
   Short for End User License Agreement, EULA is a contract between the buyer and seller of proprietary software that describes the purchaser's rights.
   Short for Functioning As Designed, FAD is a term used to describe a process that is functioning as designed and not an error or a problem.
   Pronounced like the word FAKE, a FAQE is a Frequently Asked Question that does not provide the correct answer or contains problems with the answer.
   Federal Communications Commission IDentification number found on almost every piece of computer hardware. FCC ID numbers are useful for finding information about the manufacturer of the hardware device or other useful information if no other numbers can be found.
   Short for General Public License, GPL is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the software is free for all its users. 
   For computers, a hazard is anything that poses a threat to a computer's security, performance, or functionality. Examples of computer hazards are malware, viruses, computer hackers, corrupted system files, and defective hardware.
   An abbreviation for Information and Communications Technology, ICT is analogous to Information Technology (IT). However, ICT's one distinction is that it includes a focus on unified communications and the integration of telecommunications for the ability to store and transmit information.
   Pronounced as two separate letters, IT is short for Information Technology and is a term describing a department in control of handling the support for a company. This department is also sometimes known as MIS.
   Short for International Organization for Standardization, ISO is derived from the Greek isos, meaning equal, which is the root of the prefix iso-. Founded in 1947, the ISO is a worldwide federation of national standards bodies from some 140 countries.
   ITQ is a qualification used by companies in the UK as a method of making sure their employees have the necessary IT skills required to be competent in their job.
   Formerly known as CCITT, ITU is the committee of the United Nations that was founded May 17, 1865. Its job is to make sure all telecommunications devices (e.g., telephones, fax machines, and modems) can "talk to" each other, no matter what company makes them or in what country they're used.
   The GNU Lesser General Public License, also known as the LGPL, is a more permissive version of the GPL (the GNU General Public License). It is a software license published by the Free Software Foundation.
   Short for Logical Link Control, LLC is the upper portion of the data link layer defined in IEEE 802.2. The LLC provides the user an interface to the data link layer of the OSI model and provides a uniform interface for users of the data link service. 
   Micropayments are transactions of small amounts of currency, usually online. Paypal defines a microtransaction as a transaction of less than $12 (US dollars
   Short for Materials Requirement Planning, MRP is a service or software application that helps manage inventory; keeping it reasonably low without causing shortages.
   N/A is short for not available or non applicable. The N/A abbreviation is used to fill up a blank portion of a form, chart, or other document so the reader knows the section is either not available at that time or non applicable.
   Short for Office automation, OA is the computer hardware and software that creates, stores, edits and processes office information to accomplish tasks; making work easier and more proficient.
   Oracle Beehive is a collection of programs and utilities that allow multiple users to work together and collaborate on documents, presentations, and other tasks.
   Originally founded in 1998, PayPal is an Internet service that enables any individual with an e-mail address to securely transfer money and receive money using their bank or credit card information.On October 3, 2002, Paypal was acquired by eBay Inc. Then on July 18, 2015, PayPal became an independent company again after a spin-off by eBay.
   A paywall is similar to a firewall in that it prevents users from accessing certain web page content, most commonly news sites and scholarly publications. To access certain (sometimes all) areas of these sites, users have to pay a subscription fee. 
   Proprietary software, also known as closed-source software, is copyrighted software that prohibits the redistribution or modification of its program. Legal information about a program can be found in the license agreement.
Short for Quality Assurance, QA is a job where the employee tests a hardware or software product and makes sure no problems exist before it is released. If problems exist they are reported and fixed before the product is released.
QuickBooks is computer software that allows business users to perform many different tasks relating to finances, including creating and printing invoices, managing and balancing bank accounts, paying and managing bills, and managing finances and inventory.
Refurbish is a term used to describe a computer hardware component that is not new. Because a company cannot resell a computer product as new if it has been sold and used or if the box has been opened, it must be labeled as a refurbished part or computer.
Short for Software as a Service, SaaS is software that is provided as a service instead of a product. Users access the software program by visiting a website and instead of paying a single payment for the program pays a monthly service fee or pays by the total time the software is used. A good example of a SaaS is Microsoft Office 365.
SaaS BI, also known as Software-as-a-Service Business Intelligence, On-Demand Business Intelligence or Cloud Business Intelligence, is a delivery model for Business Intelligence applications that implements them as a cloud service. SaaS BI provides a business with analytics detailing the organization's strengths and weaknesses, but its SaaS implementation gives it the advantage of zero hardware and maintenance costs.
Short for Universal Product Code, UPC is a barcode found on the majority of retail products. The UPC was first made available to the public when IBM introduced the 3660 Supermarket System, which uses a laser to bar codes.
Virtual computing refers to the use of a remote computer from a local computer where the actual computer user is located.Once logged in via special software, the remote computer can be used as though it were at the user's location, allowing the user to perform tasks via the keyboard, mouse, or other tools.